# What is Swagger and Why it matters?
Great code is crucial for modern businesses, and the best way for us to connect and share data is through APIs. But not only has there been no industry standard for designing APIs, there hasn't been an industry standard for documenting them.

APIs are supposed to connect engineers and allow for the sharing of great developments. APIs let companies add value to other products and create an ecosystem of shared knowledge. But an API is only valuable if it's accessible. And for that, it needs clear documentation.

Terrible documentation is just as useless as a clock that tells the wrong time. So developers have worked hard to find a way to standardize the vocabulary surrounding APIs. That's where Swagger comes in. Swagger is basically a set of rules (specifications) and tooling for how to semantically describe APIs. Practically, it's a language-agnostic tool that gets everyone on the same page.

Let’s talk about the problem: We have an API that we want to document. Specifically, a REST API. We can maintain a document with that information or an HTML website, or even have it generated by some tool from our code. The downside to this approach is that we need to keep it maintained manually (or via a semi-automatic process) and, while it is human-readable, it’s not really machine-readable.

Seeking out a simpler solution for both made Swagger come to life. Swagger is a set of rules (in other words, a specification) for a format describing REST APIs. The format is both machine-readable and human-readable. As a result, it can be used to share documentation among product managers, testers and developers, but can also be used by various tools to automate API-related processes.

To help you understand what Swagger looks like, take a look at the following example:

```
swagger: "2.0"
info:
  version: "1.0"
  title: "Hello World API"
paths:
  /hello/{user}:
    get:
      description: Returns a greeting to the user!
      parameters:
        - name: user
          in: path
          type: string
          required: true
          description: The name of the user to greet.
      responses:
        200:
          description: Returns the greeting.
          schema:
            type: string
        400:
          description: Invalid characters in "user" were provided.
```
In the example above we describe a simple “Hello World API”. It has a single URL exposed – “/hello/{user}”. “user” is the single parameter to the API, defined as part of the path, and we say it’s a string. We also describe the successful response, and mention it’s a string as well. A generic 400 error can be received if the “user” contained invalid characters. You can also see that throughout the operation itself we provide additional documentation.

# Swagger in a nutshell
Swagger is a framework for describing your API using a common language that everyone can understand.

  ### It's comprehensible for developers and non-developers: 
     Product managers, partners, and even potential clients can have input into the design of your API, because they 
     can see it clearly mapped out in this friendly UI.
  ### It's human readable and machine readable:
     This means that not only can this be shared with your team internally, but the same documentation can be used to   automate API-dependent processes.
  ### It's easily adjustable:
    This makes it great for testing and debugging API problems.
